Dominica’s resilience through sustainable housing				




As the world adopts eco-friendly practices, the demand for sustainable goods and services grows.



In December 2020, the United Nations said that a promising movement for carbon neutrality is taking shape in line with the world’s most urgent mission – to reduce carbon neutrality by 2050.



With the housing sector in a prime position to reduce adverse environmental impact, both public and private institutions around the globe have begun expanding sustainably.



Small Island Developing States (SIDS) like those in Latin America and the Caribbean are among the 25 most-vulnerable nations in terms of climate-related disasters, hence, most countries have embraced the idea of sustainability to mitigate the possible catastrophic effects of natural disasters.



Governments in the region have recognized the need to provide resilient and sustainable housing solutions in accordance with the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Specifically, SDG 11.3 calls on “enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanization and capacity for participatory, integrated and sustainable human settlement planning and management.”



According to Trinidadian architect Gillian Fraser, most architects in the region naturally want to build green and Caribbean builders have been using sustainable methods for years. Many organizations, international agencies and even financial institutions noted that many Caribbean countries have made great strides in the housing sector in the last decade – one of which is the remarkable housing transformation in the Commonwealth of Dominica.



Reportedly, more than 2,000 Dominican families have benefitted from the Housing Revolution Programme over the period of four years. And behind the various housing projects is MMC Development Ltd., the developing arm of UAE-based company Montreal Management Consultants.



MMC CEO and President Dr Anthony Haiden said that sustainability is their utmost priority for all the projects they embarked on.



“Despite the economic, political, and logistical challenges, MMC Development has delivered sustainable projects and we are always committed to complying with the government’s mandate to develop green structures.”



Dr Haiden emphasized that sustainable solutions are created and tailored according to the recognized challenges associated with the development.



“We take into consideration many factors for the design, construction, and management. MMC ensures that the most suitable and ecological methods are utilized.”



Construction works for more than five new housing initiatives are currently in full swing across Dominica and are set to be completed in twelve months by local contractors according to Dr Haiden. Developments are being funded by the acclaimed Dominica Citizenship by Investment Programme.



Building back better to create more resilient communities is an admirable goal – and Dominica has proved that through appropriate and sustainable construction methods, resiliency is not out of reach.