Dominicans encouraged to combat NCDs				




The Ministry of Health encourages Dominicans to play their part in fighting non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in the country.



Minister for Health, Wellness and New Health Investment Dr Irving McIntyre said that after COVID-19, reducing cases of NCDs is Dominica’s next challenge.



“The best way is to transfer all of the efforts that we had from our COVID-19 experience, all this energy and all this togetherness to our next challenge, and our next challenge is dealing with non-communicable diseases (NCDs)”



McIntyre pointed out that 80% of all deaths and 63% of premature deaths occur because of non-communicable diseases.



Dominica, like all the other regional and international countries, is facing the challenge of dealing with non-communicable which include diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, stroke, cancer, and mental disorders. And in recent data, NCDs have surpassed communicable diseases as Dominica’s dominant health concern.



The Ministry of Health, Wellness and New Health Investment continue to do extensive health education about NCDs. And in keeping with efforts to rebuild a robust, equitable, and modern healthcare system, the Government of Dominica is heavily investing in various health facilities across the nation.



Twelve health and wellness centres in Ansé De Mai, Bagatelle, Bellevue Chopin, Colihaut, Georgetown, Mahaut, Marigot, Newtown, Penville, Sourfriere, Vieille Case, and Wesley were built to cater for primary health needs.



Developed by MMC Development Ltd., each structure was built using a reinforced concrete structure with impact-resistant windows. Likewise, finishings and outfitting follow international standards.



“We were mandated to develop health centres that can withstand forces of nature just like our housing projects,” said MMC Development CEO Anthony Haiden.



He also noted that all facilities are fully equipped with necessary apparatuses needed including minor emergencies.



 “There is provision to cater to minor emergency cases, and God forbid, in case of any disasters, these facilities will still be able to continue to deliver primary services,” added Anthony Haiden.



Haiden said two new primary health centres are set to be completed in the next twelve months in Savanna Paille and Roseau.



Meanwhile, other partners like PAHO and the SMART initiative are facilitating the rehabilitation of several existing primary health centres to serve every community better.



The Ministry of Health is also urging Dominicans to visit the nearest health centre regularly to do routine check-ups and not wait to get sick and develop health problems.