OECS 41st anniversary celebration				




Release – On June 18th 2022, the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) observed its 41st Anniversary, with celebrations held under the theme, ‘41 Years of Integration: Overcoming Challenges to Build Resilience and Sustainability.’ 



The activities in commemoration of the Anniversary included a Thanksgiving Service, OECS Colors Day and an Official Flag Raising Ceremony. The Thanksgiving Service was held at the St Benedict Catholic Church in Morne Fortune Castries on Monday, June 13th 2022.  



The celebrations continued on Friday 17th June, with the OECS Colors Day. Individuals were encouraged to post their OECS-colored outfits via social media using the hashtag #OECSDAY. Widespread participation for Colors Day came from Schools, Ministries, businesses and citizens across the OECS, with many creative displays in celebration of the 41st Anniversary. The OECS Director-General, Dr Didacus Jules also led a team to engage in two school visits for Colors Day; at the Desruisseaux RC Combined School and the Grande Riviere Secondary School in Saint Lucia. During the school visits, students got the invaluable opportunity to learn about the OECS, and discuss its benefits to them and their country. 



On Saturday, June 18th 2022, the OECS Commission premiered an Official Flag Raising Ceremony in commemoration of the 41st Anniversary of the OECS. 



The ceremony was addressed by the Right Honourable Dr Keith Mitchell, Chairman of the OECS Authority and Prime Minister of Grenada. In his address, Prime Minister Mitchell spoke to the many achievements of the OECS, that ‘’ illustrate the strength and resilience of our integration movement, particularly in a global environment where the uniqueness and inherent vulnerabilities of Small Island Developing States, are not considered a priority for all.’’



He further challenged the region to overcome all future and unforeseen challenges, by remaining competitive, responsive and relevant. According to him, 



‘’‘As we go into the future, our commitment to economic harmonisation and integration, protection of human and legal rights and the encouragement of good governance among our independent and non-independent countries remains embodied within our compass. With our Revised Treaty of Basseterre, we must continue to increase the runs on the scorecard and remain responsive, competitive and relevant.



We must also continue to embrace gender equity, inclusion, empowerment of youth, digital innovation and entrepreneurship as cross-cutting and essential features of our integration movement.’’



A week of OECS Commission Staff Appreciation activities from June 17th to July 1st  will signal the end of celebrations for the 41st Anniversary of the OECS.