Caribshopper Expands to Canada				




Caribbean E-Commerce Website Caribshopper Expands Its Operations to Include Shipping to Customers in Canada



Florida, US – In addition to Caribana’s return to Toronto, Caribbean lovers living in Canada have even more reason to celebrate! They can now order their favourite Caribbean-made products online and receive them directly to their door – no more substitutions or second-bests. This is thanks to Caribshopper, the region’s leading online marketplace that brings the tastes, crafts, beauty, fashion, and culture of Jamaica and Trinidad to the shores of Canada with the click of a button. Imagine getting everything you want from the Caribbean without booking a flight! 



If you are a Caribbean national, descendant, or overall enthusiast living in Canada, there’s no need to search high and low across the Great White North for authentic Trinidadian snacks like Sunshine Snacks’ Cheese Curls or Kiss Cupcakes mini orange or chocolate cakes. You won’t even have to leave home to find Grace Foods Jamaican Coconut Milk, Jamaica Blue Mountain Coffee, or even Tastsee or Juici Beef patties. Whether you’re craving authentic curry chicken with the right mix of spices for your Sunday dinner, you’re missing grandma’s glorious pot of rice and peas, or you need that perfectly roasted Jamaican Blue Mountain coffee to perk you up in the morning, now is the time to shop and ship. 



Also, Canadian consumers who want the best wellness products for their body and soul need to look no further than Caribshoppper’s extensive marketplace featuring best-selling products from ariSkinCare, LiveSimple, or Obara. These self-care must-haves are made with all-natural ingredients, found right on the island, sure to give you the glow and rejuvenation you desire. Every whipped butter, soothing cream, fragrance-infused oil, or hand-made soap will take you back to the beaches, forests, and rivers of the Tropics with every whiff. 



Commenting on the exciting development, the CEO of Caribshopper, Kadion Preston, stated, “Since Caribshopper launched in 2021, we have been driven by a vision to bring ‘home’ to those missing it the most, with authentic Caribbean products, unbeatable convenience, and competitive prices. For more than one million Caribbean-lovers living in Canada, this is an opportunity like never before to stay connected to and support the growth of the Caribbean.”



Canadian consumers can enjoy browsing the site that features over 6,500 product SKUs. They are bound to find what they’ve been missing and can get to know up-and-coming brands that offer a modern twist on traditional Caribbean excellence, and most times they do. Canadian shopper, Richard T expressed joy and gratitude for his order through Caribshopper. 



“I am in Toronto, and it takes four days to get to me. What else can I say but thank you? Really, really happy and super satisfied with the service. You guys are so efficient. You so now have a customer for all time.” 



Like Richard, customers in Canada can also shop in their local currency, with all duties and taxes included in checkout for a more seamless experience. They can enjoy five-day shipping, free shipping on select orders, and a dedicated customer support line for queries and concerns. Plus, new customers get 15% off their first order. 



Caribshopper delivers some of the most iconic Jamaican and Trinidadian products in the categories: Food & Drink, Beauty & Wellness, Home & Living, Jewelry, Apparel, and Paper & Novelty. In a little over a year, they have become a go-to source for thousands of US residents each month who are longing for a piece of ‘home’ found in Caribbean culture. 



For more information on Caribshopper, visit their website or check them out on all major social media platforms @caribshopper.