‘Turn the clock forward on women’s rights’				




UN News – Ahead of International Women’s Day, celebrated on 08 March, UN Secretary-General António Guterres has insisted that the world “cannot emerge from the pandemic with the clock spinning backwards on gender equality”.



Mr Guterres highlighted the contribution that women have made to ending the COVID-19 pandemic, hailed the ideas, innovations and activism that are changing our world for the better, and welcomed more women leaders across all walks of life. 



However, as the UN chief pointed out, women and girls have frequently borne the brunt of the consequences of the virus spreading worldwide, which have included girls and women being shut out of schools and workplaces, led to rising poverty and rising violence and seen women doing the vast majority of the world’s unpaid but essential care work. 



To remedy the situation, Mr Guterres called for guaranteed quality education for every girl, massive investments in women’s training and decent work, effective action to end gender-based violence, and universal health care.



Other measures recommended by the UN chief include gender quotas, which could result in the world benefiting from more women leaders.







Women and climate action



The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day is “gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow”, underscoring the fact that women bear a disproportionate burden of the impacts of the climate crisis, and that they need to be central to the solutions for a sustainable planet.



The Action Coalition for Feminist Action for Climate Justice is helping to make sure that this happens. The Coalition, which brings together governments, private sector companies, the UN system and civil society, is part of a drive to bring about global action and investment, with a focus on financing for gender-just climate solutions.



These include increasing women’s leadership in the green economy, building women’s and girls’ resilience to climate impacts and disasters, and increasing the use of data on gender equality and climate.



To find out more about the ways that women are leading the fight against the climate crisis, read our feature series, “Women Building a Sustainable Future”.














UN observance of International Women’s Day 2022



The United Nations observance of International Women’s Day will be held virtually on 8 March, 10 – 11.30AM UTC–5 (New York time).The year 2022 is pivotal for achieving gender equality in the context of climate change, and environmental and disaster risk reduction, which are some of the greatest global challenges of the twenty-first century. Without gender equality today, a sustainable future, and an equal future, remains beyond our reach.This year’s IWD observance is in recognition and celebration of the women and girls who are leading the charge on climate change adaptation and response, and to honour their leadership and contribution towards a sustainable future.Senior UN officials will be speaking at the event, including Secretary-General António Guterres, Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed, and Abudallah Shahid, the President of the General Assembly.