Dominica’s COVID-19 rules eases on April 4				




Following the gradual decrease of active COVID-19 cases in the Commonwealth of Dominica, the government has decided to relax its protocols and restrictions initially meant to curb the spread of the virus in the island.



The Ministry of Health, Wellness and New Health Investments said that the decision will be effective on Monday, April 04, 2022.



Schools, churches, and public transportation will be operating at their normal capacity, according to Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Health, Wellness and New Health Investment, Hon. Dr. Irving McIntyre. The requirement for pre-arrival testing and testing on arrival for vaccinated travelers at all ports of entry to include sea farers and yachtees has also been removed.



Moreover, physical distancing of 6ft will no longer be mandatory at businesses and establishments.



From a limited capacity of 150 people, churches in the island can now welcome the faithful as usual.



Daycares and preschools will reopen with public health protocols “developed for these establishments,” while primary and secondary schools return to face-to-face learning for the third term beginning April 25. 



“All other educational institutions will resume normal operations in keeping with their own academic schedules,” Dr. McIntyre stated.



Social scene in Dominica will be coming back to life, too, as restrictions in bars, parties, and congregations that are below 300 capacity have now been lifted.



The nightclubs, though, are only allowed to reopen for under 300 patrons with strict adherence to health protocols, according to Dr. McIntyre.



Special events with over three hundred patrons requires a special event permit is required. There will also be a proof of vaccination or a negative antigen test result within 24 hours of entry as requirement. Other health protocols will be applied.



Sports events in Dominica with more than 300 spectators and participants will still be under revised special event protocols.



Meanwhile, “restrictions on visitation to the prison, hospitals and home for the elderly have been removed,” said Dr. McIntyre, adding that the public must note that these institutions will have their own policies for visitation in accordance to the health protocols.



Masks will still be worn, and the decision to completely remove this as a requirement will “depend on an increase in vaccination numbers and further reduction in COVID-19 cases.”



Visitors from cruises will be allowed to disembark and tour freely as long as they observe the established cruise ship and tour protocols.



“Cruise sector workers such as taxi drivers, vendors and tour guides must be vaccinated or present a negative forty-eight hour antigen test result and Safe-In-Nature pass,” Dr. McIntyre said.