51 families receive new homes in Dominica				




Fifty-one (51) families of the Roseau Central Constituency received keys to their new homes at the City Breeze Apartments, located on the Upper River Bank.



The handover ceremony was spearheaded by Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit and Parliamentary Representative of Roseau Central Constituency, Melissa Poponne – Skerrit. Present also are other cabinet members, government officials, dignitaries, stakeholders and supporters.



Prime Minister Skerrit said his heart is filled with gladness for the beneficiaries.



“This gift of quality, resilient shelter from the Government and People of Dominica assures residents greater peace, security and comfort; and an enhanced sense of belonging and independence. I extend heartfelt congratulations and best wishes to the beneficiaries.”

































MMC Development Ltd, which has been at the forefront of various housing and infrastructure developments in Dominica, said that the Roseau Upper Riverbank Housing Development is like no other — this is because one of the two buildings will have nine (9) units for commercial purposes.



Projects Manager Cal Murad noted that the structures are built with the highest standards in line with Dominica’s goal of becoming a climate-resilient nation.



“Both buildings, substructure and superstructure, are [made with] reinforced concrete including all the internal partitions in the buildings.”



Some recipients also spoke during the ceremony about how the new homes will change their lives and create new beginnings.














Meanwhile, Parliamentary Representative Melissa Poponne – Skerrit expressed his happiness over the completion of the project.



“These attractive, modern, and architecturally resilient homes enhance the city of Roseau and have uplifted and improved the lives of many of the citizens of the country. Congratulations to all beneficiaries and safekeeping of these environmentally-friendly residences.”



Mrs Skerrit added that more housing projects are being developed for the city and asked her constituents to be patient as the government moves toward building a modern and resilient city.