Caribbean tour “eye-opening,” says Cambridge royals				




After their week-long tour in the Caribbean, Prince William and Duchess Kate found the visit  an “eye-opener” and are said to be “overwhelmed with remorse,” according to sources.



In an exclusive article, US Weekly reported that the royal couple were looking forward to visiting Belize, Jamaica, and the Bahamas. “It was certainly more challenging than expected given the protests. They obviously know the history, but being there during the protests was a real eye-opener,” the source told US Weekly.



The couple arrived on March 19 in the region, but William, 39, and Kate, 40, had to cancel their first engagement at a farm in Belize because of protests about indigenous people’s rights and colonialism.



In Jamaica and the Bahamas, the royal couple of Cambridge was met with protests, demanding reparation payments from Great Britain and apology for slavery.



While in Jamaica, Prince William has also previously expressed his “profound sorrow” about slavery, calling it “abhorrent” and “never should have happened,” while not mentioning the participation of the monarchy in the inhumane practice.



According to the source cited in the article, since returning to London, William and Kate have already been coming up with ways to “strengthen their relationship” with other Commonwealth leaders.



“They can’t change what has happened in the past so are focusing on future,” the source said.



The Cambridge couple is expected to conduct “additional oversees humanitarian work” in the near future. “Obviously William and Kate want the former colonies to remain part of the commonwealth,” the insider was quoted as saying. “But [they] will support whatever decision they make, including becoming independent.”



William and Kate are also reported to have organized a meeting with the Palace to let their intentions be known, and “will put their point across even if it means being at odds with The Firm,” the source revealed. They want what is right for the people.”