More Caribbean islands lift COVID-19 restrictions				




A number of Caribbean Islands are easing up on their COVID-19 restrictions, just in time for the summer season.



Online travel site Travel + Leisure has reported that Belize, Saint Lucia, and Grenada are making it easier for tourists to book their flights and enjoy their stay at the islands’ pristine beaches.



The changes come as Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) lowered the alert level on these countries.



From “Level 4,” CDC reclassified the three Caribbean countries to “Level 3.” This level meant that there is still a “high” level of COVID-19 transmission, but the CDC does not consider the area as a “do not travel” one. The CDC also considers a country “Level 3” if there are 100 to 500 cases of COVID-19 reported per 100,000 people over the last 28 days.



Antigua and Barbuda has also been classified as a “Level 3” country, and has last month updated its travel advisory.



The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued a “Level 2” Travel Health Notice for The Bahamas due to COVID-19.



Saint Lucia



The Tourism Authority of Saint Lucia has announced that it is removing all of its pre-arrival testing for vaccinated travelers over the weekend. They would only need to bring a proof of their vaccination.



The test results requirement will only apply to unvaccinated travellers, and the validity of which is five (5) days prior arrival to the island.



Saint Lucia has specifief that kind of test that it is not accepting: LAMP tests, unsupervised self-administered tests, home kits, saliva samples. The document must have the name, address and telephone number of the lab where the sample was taken, the traveller’s name that must match the name on the passport or travel documents, the type of test, and when the sample was collected.



All travellers are to submit a health screening form, which “should be downloaded and printed, and must [be] completed before disembarkation in Saint Lucia for ease of processing on arrival.”



Grenada & Belize



Effective April 4th, Grenada has also lifted its COVID-19 restrictions for incoming travelers.



“No COVID-19 testing required, no vaccination required, no health declaration form, no quarantine on arrival required,” Grenada’s Tourism Authority said in an announcement.



Meanwhile, while Belize has eased up on its restrictions related to COVID-19, it has mandated that all tourists must purchase a travel health insurance. The local government launched this protocol in February “to also safeguard the well-being of all our visitors and the premise ensures that travelers are confident that they are covered and protected from unforeseen events related to their travel.”