Barbados signs air services MOU with Ghana				




Sheena Forde-Craigg, Barbados GIS – The signing of an Air Services confidential memorandum of understanding (MOU) between Barbados and the Republic of Ghana has been described as “strengthening historical ties”.



The virtual signing occurred this evening between Barbados’ Minister of Tourism and International Transport, Senator Lisa Cummins, and Ghana’s Minister of Transport and Aviation, Kwaku Ofori Asiamah.



The air services MOU between the two countries will promote bilateral aviation relations and expand economic opportunities for their designated airlines, and the Barbados Tourism Marketing Inc. will be working to ensure that it becomes a commercially viable venture.



Minister Cummins, before the signing of the MOU, emphasised: “We are serious about building the strong relationship that already exists between our two countries, as seen between our two respective leaders.”



She added that the signing of the MOU is also part of the “process of working towards building stronger collaborative links between Barbados and Ghana, specifically in the areas of tourism cooperation, cultural travel, and heritage tourism”.



Minister Asiamah concurred, stating: “I think that it is well overdue that Ghana and Barbados should begin to strengthen the historical ties, and I think the relationship that was built by our president Addo and your Prime Minister is something worth recognition….



“And I’m hoping that this relationship will not end at the signing of this MOU but rather guide all of us to make sure that we need to work together so that our nations can strengthen our relationship through trade, through whatever means possible, because history tells us that there’s no difference between the people of Barbados and people of this country.”



Barbados’ Chargé d’affaires at the High Commission in Accra, Ghana, Juliette Babb-Riley, accepted the physically signed MOU from Minister Asiamah on behalf of the Government of Barbados. 



Barbados established diplomatic relations with Ghana in 1994.