Prince Edward and Sophie’s Caribbean visit ‘may be one of the last’ from the Royal Family				




The Earl and Countess of Wessex’s visit to the region may be one of the last ones to take place, according to an observer who has been following the royal tours in the Caribbean.



A report by the Independent quoted Philip Murphy, author of The Empire’s New Clothes: the Myth of the Commonwealth, who said in a tweet that the earlier visit made by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge wasn’t “an outlier” and there could likely be a “pattern” on the royal family’s attempts to visit the region in the future.



“It’s now clear that William and Kate’s ill-fated Caribbean tour last month wasn’t an outlier caused by poor planning,” Murphy wrote. “This is now likely to be the pattern for royal visits to the region and I expect they’ll peter out; 2022 looks like being a pivotal year.”







It’s now clear that William and Kate’s ill-fated Caribbean tour last month wasn’t an outlier caused by poor planning. This is now likely to be the pattern for royal visits to the region & I expect they’ll peter out. 2022 looks like being a pivotal year. https://t.co/BGGhFASAAN
— Philip Murphy (@philipvmurphy) April 24, 2022








The anti-colonial protests and calls for slavery reparations have been getting louder in the Caribbean, and they were very much heard during Prince William and Kate’s visit, that even led to a cancelled trip in Belize because the locals “were not consulted” about the royal couple’s visit. 



Protests and calls for reparations and apology from the Queen as she celebrates her Platinum Jubilee were as loud during Prince Edward and Sophie’s visit in Antigua and Barbuda, St Vincent and the Grenadines and Saint Lucia.



In Saint Lucia on Wednesday, protesters in a cocoa plantation paraded their signs to welcome Prince Edward and Sophie’s party that read “repatriation with reparations” and “Queen say sorry.” Grenada was supposed to be in the list, but was cancelled last minute after taking the heed of the advice of the island’s governor-general.



As Prince Edward and Sophie’s visit wrapped up Thursday, more nations have expressed their desire to be divorced from the monarchy and declare independence, namely Antigua & Barbuda and Saint Kitts & Nevis.