WHO recommends two new drugs to treat COVID-19 patients 				




UN News – The World Health Organization (WHO) recommended two new drugs to treat patients with COVID-19, one for patients with the critical disease, and another deemed effective for non-severe cases.



The first drug, baricitinib, is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor- a class of drugs used to treat autoimmune conditions, blood and bone marrow cancers, and rheumatoid arthritis.



According to the WHO Guideline Development Group, it is “strongly recommended” for patients with severe or critical disease in combination with corticosteroids.



The group of international experts based their recommendation on “moderate certainty evidence” that it improves survival and reduces the need for ventilation.



There was no observed increase in adverse effects.



The experts note that it has a similar effect as other arthritis drugs called interleukin-6 (IL-6) inhibitors. Because of that, when both drugs are available, they suggest choosing the best option based on cost, availability, and clinician experience.



It is not recommended to use both drugs at the same time.



The experts also advise against the use of two other JAK inhibitors (ruxolitinib and tofacitinib) for patients with severe or critical cases of COVID-19 infection.



According to them, trials undergone using these drugs failed to show any benefits arising using either drug and suggested a possible increase in serious side effects with tofacitinib.







Non-severe cases



In the same update, WHO makes a conditional recommendation for the use of a monoclonal antibody known as sotrovimab in patients with non-severe cases.



According to them, the drug should only be administered to patients at the highest risk of hospitalisation. In those at lower risk, it only showed “trivial benefits”. 



A similar recommendation has been made previously, for another monoclonal antibody drug, casirivimab-imdevimab, and the experts say there is insufficient data to recommend one over the other.



For both, the effectiveness against new variants, like Omicron, is still uncertain. 



The group will update their guidelines for monoclonal antibodies when more data becomes available.







Recommendations



These recommendations are based on new evidence from seven trials involving over 4,000 patients with non-severe, severe, and critical infections.



Developed by WHO with the methodological support of MAGIC Evidence Ecosystem Foundation, the guidelines provide trustworthy guidance and help doctors make better decisions with their patients.



According to the agency, the guidelines are useful in fast-moving research areas, because they allow researchers to update evidence summaries as new information becomes available.



The latest guidance also updates recommendations for the use of interleukin-6 receptor blockers and systemic corticosteroids for patients with severe or critical COVID-19; conditional recommendations for the use of casirivimab-imdevimab (another monoclonal antibody treatment) in selected patients; and against the use of convalescent plasma, ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine, regardless of disease severity.