CTO: 2022 will set the tone of tourism recovery in the Caribbean				




Members of the Caribbean Tourism Organisation (CTO) remain bullish about the recovery of tourism in the region, with 2022 serving as springboard for a stronger bounce back in the following years.



An article from the Travel Week shared that CTO is expecting pre-pandemic status of travel and tourism to come back in 2023 or 2024.



This was revealed in a two-day online event hosted by the CTO for 18 of the Caribbean’s top destinations for them to be able to present updates about the COVID-19 response as the world slowly restarted its economy, as well as to update the trade on entry requirements, protocols, and other new developments.



“After almost two years of the pandemic, destinations are wary of making guarantees, and with good reason. But growing numbers of visitors and a sense that COVID-19 is moving from pandemic status, to endemic, has many Caribbean islands hopeful for the months to come,” wrote Kathryn Folliott.



Almost all countries have their COVID-19 protocols and restrictions in place, such as the requirement of vaccinations and testing.







A ‘good summer’



Antigua and Barbuda’s Tourism minister has shared CTO’s optimism, calling this year’s summer season a “good” one.



In a report by Antigua Observer, Charles Fernandez said that while their is still uncertainty on how the pandemic could affect the arrivals of tourists, the resurgence of in the nation’s tourism sector is there.



“We are still looking forward to a good season [and] I think the best will be in the fourth quarter of 2022. I think, at that point in time – all going well and we have Covid-19 behind us – it would really be great [for the sector],” Fernandez told the local daily. “We’re also anticipating, because of pent-up demand, that we may have a better-than-usual summer,” he added.



Fernandez also expressed his hopes that the numbers on the ships “could bump back up,” which is also a lucrative source of tourists to the islands.