Caribbean News Wrap: February 4, 2022				




St. Vincent and the Grenadines to allow Carnival this year



The biggest festival of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is officially happening this year.



The announcement was made by Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister of St Vincent and the Grenadines, during a talk show on Sunday.



Vincy Mas, which was how the carnival is called, received a go signal for 2022 in a decision during the cabinet meeting held last week.



“It is a mass cultural event where individuals express their skills, it is an occasion for economic activity, and it is a relief for people,” Gonsalves was quoted by WIC News as saying.



“Every community need occasions where people may let off steam; it’s a catharsis. You have to have something where you can let off your energy because you work all the time,” he added.



In 2020 and 2021, the carnival was cancelled due to the pandemic. Aside from this, the island also experience a volcano eruption and Hurricane Elsa.







Filipina Nanny missing in Trinidad and Tobago



Authorities have been searching for a Filipina living and working in Trinidad and Tobago who went missing since December 12 last year. 



According to a report by a ABS-CBN News, the Filipina is Lyka Bernas, a 29-year-old native of Cavite who works as a nanny.



Bernas’ friend, Kevyn Barcelon, said that the Filipina nanny was last seen leaving their apartment afternoon of December 12. 



“Monday came. Her employer called me and said that Lyka never reached work. It’s not likely of Lyla to miss work. She would normally call if she’s sick or if anything is to happen. But nobody heard from Lyka. And that’s when I made the police report,” Barcelon said.



Barcelon shared that she became evenn more worried when she checked Bernas’ room. “Everything is here, her documents, her passport, her vaccination card. That’s why I really truly think she didn’t intend to stay for long. She willingly went out, yes, but I know she didn’t intend to stay out for long because she would have brought her bag, her things, but all of her things are here.”



Philippine officials in Washington, D.C. have been coordinating with local police to find Bernas, the ABS-CBN News reported.



Investigators are now focused on the various exits and entry points in Trinidad and Tobago to see whether Lyka somehow, whether by force or not, was able to leave the country.