Affordable housing for young Dominicans launched				




Young residents of Dominica who are looking to invest in their own homes will be able to do so at a less expensive rate.



This is what Dominica’s Prime Minister Roosevelt Skeritt promised as he announced on Saturday the government’s “Future Housing Programme,” where affordable housing will be made more accessible to qualified residents who are 45 years old or younger and are employed within the public and private sectors.



This will be the first phase, Skeritt said, and eventually, the programme will be expanded for the rest of Dominica’s citizens and residents.



“This is our way of subsiding overall cost of the home so that the cost is within your financial range as young professionals and young Dominicans,” the prime minister said, emphasizing that home ownership is not just “putting a roof overhead” but will provide the safety that every Dominican deserves. 



“In Dominica Labour Party 2019 manifesto, we pledged that the people of Dominica would be properly housed. We have delivered on this promise,”  Skerrit said. The housing projects have continued in spite of the pandemic that happened where the whole world halted its operations to curb the spread of the extremely contagious virus. 



Skeritt also highlighted what the Future Housing Programme hopes to address —  to help a generation build greater wealth that they can pass on to the generations after them.



“In Dominica, we do not have a deep-seated culture that takes this into consideration. But with proper generational wealth planning and management, wealth can be passed down for many generations within families. This is important because we all want to give our children a significant financial advantage early on in their life so that they have a better chance at successful and progressive futures,” he explained.



Housing projects are being taken seriously in Dominica, and its government is working nonstop to build back better for its residents and eventually become the world’s first climate-resilient country.



These projects are mostly funded by the highly-acclaimed Dominica’s Citizenship by Investment (CBI) Programme, which has been in operation since 1993.



To date, thousands of houses have already been turned over to beneficiaries and more projects are on-going to provide more climate-resilient homes for the most vulnerable. 



MMC Development Ltd. has become a key player in the success of Dominica’s Housing Revolution Program, accomplishing more than a dozen housing projects and spearheading more in the areas of Joe Burton, Scotts Head, Eggleston, Grand Bay Ville, Canefield, Vieille Case, and Paix Bouche. The collaboration of the local government of Dominica and MMCE Development Ltd. go way back, when they came up with “the innovative solution of building an integrated community for the displaced residents of Petite Savanne.”



MMC Development Ltd. is also involved in the development of Dominica’s first international airport and the establishment of state-of-the-art health facilities across the island.



Anthony Haiden, the company’s CEO and President said in a previous interview that his organisation is geared towards fulfilling the mandate of the Government to do what is best for a nation like Dominica.



“The Government has been able to use the CBI funds to affect people’s lives in their basic needs… and we (MMC) are committed to helping the nation,” Haiden said. “I have not seen a single company in the CBI participants to have such direct contributions in infrastructure. It is not just a matter of citizenship, but a direct upgrade of well-being that has been actualized, like in Dominica.”







Watch the full event here: