More residents flee Sydney homes as floods worsen				




More residents were forced to flee their homes as the rivers quickly climbed over danger thresholds and as the floods in Sydney grew worse due to continuous torrential rains.



Authorities reported that 50,000 people in New South Wales, the majority of whom reside in Sydney’s western suburbs, had either been ordered to evacuate or had been given a warning.



New South Wales Premier, Dominic Perrottet, urged everyone to be vigilant.



“This event is far from done. Please use caution when driving on our roads, wherever you are. Significant hazards of flash flooding still exist.”



As the coastal trough travels north, the Bureau of Meteorology (BoM) predicts that the last wild storm cell, which dumped a year’s worth of rain in three days in some regions, will weaken in Sydney on Tuesday.







Major Flooding continues across parts of #NSW, and a #Flood Watch has been issued for the Mid North Coast as rain pushes north.
Rain easing in #Sydney and the #Illawarra, however flooding will remain well after the rain has stopped.
Latest Warnings: https://t.co/Vs0hnndcz6 pic.twitter.com/cBFwfomWAd
— Bureau of Meteorology, Australia (@BOM_au) July 5, 2022




However, the risk of flooding might persist throughout the week, as most river catchments were already close to capacity before the most recent deluge. Some locations have gotten 800mm (31.5 inches) of rain since Saturday, surpassing Australia’s yearly normal of approximately 500mm (20.75 inches) (20 inches).



The Bureau of Meteorology (BoM) forecasts that the state’s mid-north coast could receive up to 125mm (five inches) of precipitation over the course of six hours on Tuesday, with some locations receiving as much as 90mm (3.5 inches).



In numerous flood-affected areas, winds of up to 90 kilometres per hour (56 miles per hour) are predicted, increasing the risk of downed trees and power lines.



Amid heavy seas, rescue personnel continued their efforts to tow a bulk carrier ship that lost power off the coast of Sydney after tow lines snapped due to severe weather, according to officials.



According to the meteorological agency, Sydney’s third and most significant flood this year is occurring in the western suburb of Windsor.



The government has declared the floods a natural disaster, helping flood-hit residents receive emergency funding support.