Dominica PM vows to continue investing in building “robust and resilient infrastructure” for new fiscal year				




Dominica will see more resilient infrastructure to be completed in the coming year along with more projects to beautify the island, and roads to forge stronger connection and interaction across communities, its prime minister said.



During his presentation of the 2022-2023 National Budget this week, Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit said these projects are expected to support the economic development of our country, beginning with improved road alignment of the $18-million project of Layou East Road.



“This new road will improve connectivity between the West and East Coasts and expand opportunities in the agriculture and tourism sectors,” Skerrit said.



By June 2023, the 126 million rehabilitation project on the East Coast Road from Bois Diable through Castle Bruce and the Kalinago Territory to Hatton Garden is expected to be opened to the public.



“Once completed, Dominicans, and in particular, the people of the east will drive comfortably on a resilient 25-mile highway that is much wider and safer, with several new bridges and water crossings, and lighting,” Skerrit said.



These are just some of the road projects in line for the fiscal year. Skerrit also revealed that plans are also afoot to construct a modern administrative complex in Portsmouth. This complex will be home to all of the government’s financial services North of the island and will also provide lodging to public officers. 



Skerrit also announced that the new Marigot Hospital is now complete and the medical equipment and furnishings are currently being installed.



“The new hospital allows for the decentralization of services, where patients will be offered a wider range of services,” Skerrit said.



In 2020, when the Marigot Hospital project started, Skerrit said in a budget address that same year that “the source of financing and process for eventual drawdown had become too protracted,” and that the government decided to get its funds from the Citizenship By Investment Programme.



The Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica has mandated Montreal Management Consultants (MMC) Development Ltd., to build the New Marigot Hospital, following the success of a number of its housing developments.



“The 40,000 square feet two-floor hospital has a 75-bed capacity, and will cater to the needs of the communities of Marigot, Concord, Kalinago Territory, Wesley, Woodford Hill, Palm Tree, Calibishie, Bense and Anse D’ Mai,” MMC CEO Anthony Haiden said.



MMC Development Ltd. is also the overseer of the construction projects of Dominica’s Housing Revolution as per the government’s mandate, with a dozen of the housing projects already completed an turned over to residents.