Dominica ranks 1st as best island in the Caribbean for travelers				




Travelers of the Caribbean region have spoken: Dominica is the best island to visit.



This is according to the World’s Best Awards survey by T + L this year, where Dominica claimed the number one spot as the best place to visit in the sought-after region. One reader even described the island as “stunning.”



Aside from its pristine beaches and fancy resorts, Dominica is a haven for eco-travelers, earning its moniker Nature Island because of its luscious “rain forests, volcanoes, hot springs, thunderous waterfalls, and black-sand beaches.”



“It’s a dream for hikers, snorkelers, and all kinds of adventurers, but the island also offers pockets of over-the-top luxury, including this year’s best resort hotel in the Caribbean — Secret Bay, tucked within the rain forest with tree-house-style villas, jaw-dropping nature views, and private plunge pools,” T+L wrote in a recent article.



St. Vincent and the Grenadines came in second place, and received praise for its “fantastic water excursions.”



The island of Anguilla ranked third, with its beaches and turquoise waters becoming a crowd favorite amongst beach-goers. “Anguilla is my favorite spot on this earth. Nothing compares. The beaches, the people, the food, the enjoyment…total bliss,” one reader commented.



T+L conducts its annual World’s Best Awards survey to get the pulse of the travelers and gather information on travel experiences around the globe. Its readers rated the islands according to “their activities and sights, natural attractions and beaches, food, friendliness, and overall value.”







Towards a climate-resilient future



Dominica is not only a favorite tourist destination—it is also transforming itself as the world’s first climate-resilient country for its residents and guests.



Just recently, a member of the European Union Parliament commended Dominica’s efforts to adapt to the changing climate.



The onslaught of Typhoon Erika and Hurricane Maria served as a wake-up call to Dominica, becoming even more aware of its vulnerability on natural disasters.



“The task of building back better and becoming a more resilient nation in all aspects became the mantra for the government,” said Denise Edwards, Dominica’s financial secretary. 



In doing so, the local government has forged ties with Dubai-based Montreal Management Consultants (MMC) Development Ltd. to carry out various projects on housing, health centres, schools, and community centers.



MMC, the brainchild of Anthony Haiden, spearheaded the government’s “Housing Dominica Initiative” that has provided thousands of families climate-resilient homes across the island. The company is also in charge of Dominica’s first international airport.



The MMC has been a long-term partner of the Dominican government, and it boasts in-depth experience in design, development, management, consultancy, and engineering services. 



The Citizenship by Investment Programme has been instrumental in Dominica’s ambition to build back better, as it has provided the right amount of financial support to make the island’s goal come true.