Experts call for “better-built” schools in the Caribbean				




A group of experts has said there is a learning crisis in the Caribbean and Latin America, and building better school infrastructures could help address the problem.



An article published by the World Bank said that “good-quality infrastructure can change the learning environment for many boys and girls”, and such environments can encourage more opportunities for inclusion, safety, and more effective teaching methods.



“Not only is there a need for more schools to serve the growing number of students, but there is also a need for better-built schools that promote learning recovery,” the authors wrote.



For schools and other educational facilities to properly support learning, there are three concepts that local governments and authorities must keep in mind: that the infrastructures have to be inclusive, adequate, and effective. In addition, they must consider the curriculum, the natural calamities that happen in the region like hurricanes and earthquakes, and the changing climate.



One of the strategies highlighted by the authors is to pour “investments in new and existing school infrastructure” that should be regulated by standards “adapted to the local context and aligned with pedagogical practices.”



Many Small Island Developing States, including the Commonwealth of Dominica, have taken a foot forward to provide a more conducive learning environment for the future generation.



The Government of Dominica has started modernising educational institutions to become climate-resilient structures.



Funded by the island’s Citizenship by Investment Programme, the two new schools — Mahaut Primary School and the Dominica Grammar School will provide a better learning environment for the youth to hone their skills.










The construction of these schools is spearheaded by MMC Development Ltd., the developing arm of Dubai-based Montreal Management Consultants (MMC). MMC Development Ltd., founded by Anthony Haiden, has been working closely with the government of Dominica to build back better homes and public facilities.



“In 2015, when Typhoon Erica hit Dominica, it taught us all a hard lesson — if we’re not going to acknowledge that the climate has changed, we’ll end up devastated by hurricanes and earthquakes every time,” MMC Development Ltd, CEO and President Anthony Haiden said in a statement.



Works for the Mahaut Primary School are already completed. The modern, climate-resilient structure has well-ventilated classrooms, contemporary washroom facilities on every floor, a fully equipped multi-media room, a computer room, a library, a cafeteria, a staff lounge, and administrative offices.







Rendered 3D image of Dominica Grammar School from MMC Development Ltd.


Meanwhile, the foundation works for the Dominica Grammar School have begun. The project is set to be completed in 30 months.



“The Dominica Grammar School will undergo total reconstruction, converting the institution to a modern campus that will be a model for the whole region,” said Haiden



He added that the project plan includes a state-of-the-art auditorium that can house nearly 500 people, green areas, and sporting facilities.