Montserrat observes National Day of Prayer and Thanksgiving				




Release – The Government of Montserrat has declared Wednesday, July 20, 2022, a public holiday throughout Monserrat to commemorate the National Day of Prayer and Thanksgiving.



To celebrate this day, a service under the theme, ‘Give God His Due’ will be held at the Montserrat Cultural Centre on Wednesday, July 20th, 2022, commencing at 5:30 pm under the auspices of the Minister of Ecclesiastical Affairs, Honorable Charles Kirnon. The service will be live on ZJB Radio Montserrat and streamed via the Government Information Unit’s YouTube channel and Facebook page.



The National Day of Prayer and Thanksgiving is an opportunity for residents to give thanks to God for his continuous blessings and mercy towards the island.



All are invited to attend the thanksgiving service.



Monday, July 18 marked 27 years since the Soufriere Hills Volcano became active, resulting in a series of destructive eruptions over a number of years, which caused loss of lives and livelihoods, mass migration, and rendered two-thirds of the island uninhabitable.



Over the past few years, activity at the Soufrière Hills Volcano has been low.  The last weekly report from the Montserrat Volcano Observatory on July 15, 2022, noted that “activity at the Soufrière Hills Volcano remains low”.







Updated Travel Protocol for Montserrat



The Montserrat Tourism Division has released the Montserrat Island guide, an e-brochure that highlights the many experiences a visitor can enjoy on a trip to Montserrat.



The 40-page Island Guide is also available in print version for visitors, diaspora, and travel media alike.  It is packed with high-resolution photos and information to suit a wide range of interests and demographics including getting to the island and getting around, places to stay, exciting experiences, excursions, arts, and craft directory, dining locations, festivals, and the Remote Worker Stamp.



Director of Tourism, Rosetta West-Gerald noted, “Our priority is to increase the number of new and returning visitors to the island and it is fantastic to launch this e-brochure, especially at this time, which is easily accessible and which shows that Montserrat is packed full of amazing experiences to enjoy right now! It also encourages visitors to explore more and to stay longer”.



Additionally, Market Development Officer, Cherise Aymer, stated, “We know our visitors appreciate the importance of having information readily available, and our Island Guide is often used as a one-stop-shop for those seeking information about Montserrat. Technology is changing how the average visitor researches and interacts with a destination, therefore, the Montserrat Tourism Division found it prudent to offer this service to make the island even more accessible to visitors.”