Two new Avengers movies set for 2025				




Two new Avengers movies will come out in 2025, Walt Disney Co.’s DIS.N Marvel Studios announced at a presentation to fans on Saturday, July 23, where it showed off some of its upcoming superhero TV shows and movies.



Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige said from the stage at San Diego’s annual Comic-Con pop culture convention that Avengers: The Kang Dynasty and Avengers: Secret Wars will conclude phase six of the hugely successful Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) in 2025. He said that the Multiverse Saga will be the name for phases four through six.



More than 6,000 people in a packed convention hall cheered and clapped loudly when Feige made the announcements, but he didn’t say much else. Avengers: Endgame, which came out in 2019, is the second-highest grossing movie of all time. MCU movies have made more than $25 billion worldwide at the box office.



Feige also talked about plans for a TV show called Daredevil: Born Again, which will have 18 episodes and stream on Disney+ in the spring of 2024, and a movie called Thunderbolts, which is set to come out in July of that year.



The studio talked about some of the Marvel Phase 5 movies that are coming out soon, like Quantumania, the third Ant-Man and The Wasp movie that will come out next February.



“We finally get to spend some time in the quantum realm,” said director Peyton Reed. “But it’s not always what you think it is.”



Guardians of the Galaxy Volume 3 will go into more detail about the characters’ pasts, including Rocket, a gun-toting raccoon who director James Gunn called “the saddest creature in the universe.”



Marvel ended the presentation with a look at Black Panther: Wakanda Forever, a sequel to the 2018 hit movie Black Panther, in which Chadwick Boseman starred. Two years later, Boseman died of cancer. Lupita Nyong’o, who plays the warrior Nakia in the sequel, says, “It feels huge to be back in Wakanda.” The sequel comes out in November.



Director Ryan Coogler said that when Boseman and he watched scenes from the first Black Panther movie at a Comic-Con, the actor was excited and gripped his shoulder.



Coogler said, “I promise you I can feel his hand on me right now.” “His spirit, his passion, his genius, his pride in his culture, and the impact he had on his industry will be felt forever.”