The UWI hosts Vice-Chancellor’s Forum to examine transforming education in the Caribbean				




On Thursday, July 21, The Full Reform of Education in Jamaica Report, 2021, better known as the Orlando Patterson Commission Report will be examined during a Vice-Chancellor’s Forum hosted by The University of the West Indies (The UWI) in collaboration with the Caribbean Centre for Educational Planning (CCEP). 



The virtual event themed, Examining the Patterson Commission Report: Lessons for transforming education in Jamaica and the Caribbean brings together regional technical experts in education who will discuss the Report’s findings and recommendations, how they may be interpreted and applied to address Jamaica’s education system and elements of it which may be relevant across the wider Caribbean. It will be live streamed from 11:00 a.m. (AST/Eastern Caribbean)/10:00 a.m. (Jamaica) via UWItv. 



Head of the Caribbean Centre for Educational Planning at The UWI, Dr. Canute Thompson, together with Dean, Faculty of Humanities and Education at the University’s Mona Campus, Professor Silvia Kouwenberg will deliver the feature presentations. Two-panel discussions moderated by former Minister of Education in Jamaica, Reverend Ronald Thwaites will follow. Panellists include Senior Education Specialist, Caribbean Development Bank, Dr. Martin Baptiste; Programme Manager, Human Resource Development, CARICOM,  Dr. Laurette Bristol; Independent Educational Consultant, Mr. Robert Gregory; Professor of Educational Leadership and Social Justice, Institute for Educational and Social Equity, Professor Paul Miller; Education Specialist, Old Harbour Bay Primary School, Ms. Deatricia Ming and Lecturer in Language, Online Learning Specialist and 2023 – 2026 Head, Caribbean Centre for Educational Planning, Dr. Schontal Moore.



Interested persons are invited to tune in to participate in the Forum, Examining the Patterson Commission Report: Lessons for transforming education in Jamaica and the Caribbean at www.uwitv.org or www.facebook.com/UWITV from11:00 a.m. (AST/Eastern Caribbean)/10:00 a.m. (Jamaica).







About The University of the West Indies 



The UWI has been and continues to be a pivotal force in every aspect of Caribbean development; residing at the centre of all efforts to improve the well-being of people across the region. 



From a university college of London in Jamaica with 33 medical students in 1948, The UWI is today an internationally respected, a global university with near 50,000 students and five campuses: Mona in Jamaica, St. Augustine in Trinidad and Tobago, Cave Hill in Barbados, Five Islands in Antigua and Barbuda and its Open Campus, and 10 global centres in partnership with universities in North America, Latin America, Asia, Africa and Europe. 



The UWI offers over 800 certificates, diplomas, and undergraduate and postgraduate degree options in Culture, Creative and Performing Arts, Food and Agriculture, Engineering, Humanities and Education, Law, Medical Sciences, Science and Technology, Social Sciences, and Sport. As the Caribbean’s leading university, it possesses the largest pool of Caribbean intellect and expertise committed to confronting the critical issues of our region and the wider world.



The UWI has been consistently ranked among the top universities globally by the most reputable ranking agency, Times Higher Education (THE). In the latest World University Rankings 2022, released in September 2021, The UWI moved up an impressive 94 places from last year. In the current global field of some 30,000 universities and elite research institutes, The UWI stands among the top 1.5%.



The UWI is the only Caribbean-based university to make the prestigious lists since its debut in the rankings in 2018. In addition to its leading position in the Caribbean, it is also in the top 20 for Latin America and the Caribbean and the top 100 global Golden Age universities (between 50 and 80 years old).  The UWI is also featured among the leading universities on THE’s Impact Rankings for its response to the world’s biggest concerns, outlined in the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including Good Health and Wellbeing; Gender Equality and Climate Action.



For more, visit their website.