Sint Maarten starts accepting applications for Hurricane Passes				




The Government of Sint Maarten announced that the application process for the annual Hurricane Passes for the 2022 Atlantic Hurricane Season has started.



According to the issued advisory, there will be two types of passes, the Disaster Pass and the Hurricane Pass. The pass allows the bearer to access the public road to visit the place of business to assess possible damage to the property. 



Potential applicants have until June 17 to present all relevant information related to the process of requesting a pass.



Disaster Passes are issued to the following crucial disaster relief organizations and are valid for three years. The disaster relief organization consists of the following: Emergency Operations Center staff, Emergency Support Services staff, Crucial governmental organizations, and entities involved in disaster management such as medical institutions, general practitioners and pharmacies, Red Cross, WIEMS, White & Yellow Cross, National Security Service VDSM, Sea Rescue, Shelter Management, Ministers and their drivers.



The following categories qualify for a Hurricane Pass which is valid for two years: Essential Government personnel without a disaster pass; Essential personnel of crucial companies or organizations: NV GEBE, Seven Seas Water, Telecom and Internet providers, Princess Juliana International Airport, Port St. Maarten, Hotels and Guesthouses, Marinas, Fuel distributors and gas stations, Commercial banks, Security companies (supervisors only), medium and large-sized supermarkets, Restaurants (those providing food services to emergency services), Importers and Wholesale Companies for perishable goods (Only requests can be submitted for refrigeration and or generator technicians).



Crucial organizations as listed above (disaster & hurricane passes) can request personal passes for their key personnel.



The Office of Disaster Management which falls under the Ministry of General Affairs is handling the application process for the passes on behalf of the Prime Minister.



The pass system is a mechanism to maintain public order during emergency situations. The Prime Minister assesses the damage in conjunction with Emergency Disaster Management entities of the Government after a disaster has occurred and can impose a curfew if the extent of the damage poses a threat to the safety and security of the community.