Philippines: Marcos – Duterte wins landslide election victory				




Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr. and “Inday” Sara Duterte-Carpio has been proclaimed the 17th president-elect and vice president-elect of the Philippines 



With his 92-year-old mother, Imelda Marcos, his wife, family and siblings beside him, Marcos Jr.’s hands were raised by the Senate president and House speaker after securing a landslide win over outgoing Vice-President Leni Robredo. Bongbong got more than 31.6 million votes or 58.8 per cent.



Marcos Jr’s father, the late Ferdinand Marcos Sr, ruled for two decades, including a period of martial law, where he had absolute power before an unceremonial ouster in 1986. It was reported that from then until 1981, more than 3,000 government opponents were killed while some 70,000 were arrested. Bongbong has refused to acknowledge or apologize for alleged massive human rights violations and plunder under his father’s rule and has defended his legacy.



The Marcoses are once again the most powerful political family, headed by Marcos Jr., who will return to Malacañang Palace as president, a position occupied by his father for two decades. His sister is a senator until 2025, his son was elected as a congressman, and many of his relatives have retained their clout in Ilocos Norte and Tacloban City.



Political analysts said that the biggest factor in Bongbong’s win was the mastery of social media, particularly TikTok. 



After the proclamation, Marcos Jr asked people to pray for him. “Wish me well. I want to do well because when a president does well, the country does well. And I want to do well for this country,” he said.



Meanwhile, Sara Duterte-Carpio, daughter of outgoing president Rodrigo Duterte, was proclaimed vice president-elect with some 32 million votes.  She was not accompanied by any family members as she took to the rostrum. 



The victory of the Marcos – Dutrerte tandem reflects the continuing dominance of political dynasties in the Philippines. They will take office on June 30.