CDEMA hosts virtual Exercise Synergy				




The Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA) Coordinating Unit (CU) hosted a virtual Exercise SYNERGY on May 22, 2022, for the upcoming hurricane season. 



The fourth annual exercise is aimed at building preparedness for the potential multi-island, multi-hazard impact threat to the region. Over 50 regional and international stakeholders attended SYNERGY, a flagship regional exercise to test the coordination within the Regional Response Mechanism (RRM).



Acting Deputy Executive Director of CDEMA, Andria Grosvenor, underscored the importance of regional collaboration in responding to hazardous impacts.



“An effective response to an impacted Participating State can only be made possible via strengthening, coordination and ensuring the key players come to an agreement on how we work together before we have a disastrous impact.”



The unprecedented events of 2021, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, saw the activation of the RRM to support multi-island impact.



Grosvenor referred to the timely hosting of last year’s Exercise SYNERGY, which examined a multi-island strike, with the impact of a hurricane and a 7.0 magnitude earthquake.



Just weeks later, on August 14, 2021, Haiti was impacted by a 7.2 magnitude earthquake and subsequently, Tropical Storm Grace made landfall.



Grosvenor noted that Exercise SYNERGY aided in the preparation for that response, explaining that as a result, “the CDEMA CU was already aware of the pledges, tentative capacity, and capability of regional and international RRM partners, which aided in a timely response”.



Exercise SYNERGY received financial support from Global Affairs Canada through the Targeted Support to the CDEMA Project. The CAD $8 Million Project which commenced in 2019 has played a key role in enhancing the RRM, namely the establishment of CDEMA’s Integrated Regional Logistics Hub and a donation of $500,000 CAD to St. Vincent and the Grenadines to support recovery efforts.



Global Affairs Canada Senior International Assistance Officer, Natalie Hutchinson, underscored the Canadian government’s continued support of the Regional Response Mechanism.



“It’s really good to have this opportunity to train together. We heard in the After-Action Review (AAR) that the RRM continues to serve the region well. Certainly, Canada remains a keen supporter of the system and an advocate for the mechanism,” she said.



Participants of SYNERGY came together for robust wargaming discussions on the scenario of responding to a Category 5 Hurricane impacting several CDEMA Participating States (PSs) concurrently. Findings from SYNERGY will be used in the annual update and review of the Regional Coordination Plan.