Bermuda’s Minister of Youth Culture and Sports meets Carifta Team				




Gov.BM – Fresh from competing in the Caribbean, members of Bermuda’s Carifta Team recently met with the Minister of Youth, Culture and Sport, Dr Ernest Peets, who congratulated them on their success at the 49th Edition of the Games.



As the public is aware last month the Carifta Games took place in Jamaica and Barbados, with Bermudian athletes delivering outstanding performances on the track and in the pool, resulting in several medals being won. 



Minister Peets who met members of the team at the National Sports Centre said, “I had the good fortune of attending the games in Jamaica last month and was filled with such immense pride watching our athletes represent Bermuda on the international stage.



“Even against the stiff competition of other countries, both our track and swim teams delivered memorable performances, and I felt it important to thank them for flying Bermuda’s flag high for the entire region to see.”



Minister Peets stressed that Government is committed to supporting Bermuda’s young athletes and notes that there are significant societal benefits when “our talent is properly nurtured and developed.”Minister Peets said, “We recognise that by ensuring a robust athletic programme, we can accomplish so much. For starters, we can help deter our young people from engaging in activities and behaviours that are detrimental; we can aid in improving academic performances, and we can help develop and nurture our young people into becoming thriving adults.”



The Minister added, “On an annual basis through the Department of Youth and Sports, we invest heavily in our young athletes. We provide close to $1.5 million in grants and funding to Bermuda’s National Sports Governing Bodies so they can continue to help our athletes compete at home and abroad. And with this support, we are seeing success with Bermuda punching above its weight at the international level — we only need to look at our Carifta athletes as just one example.”



Minister Peets concluded, “Bermuda has a very long and proud tradition of producing a number of talented sports stars in a range of disciplines.



“For our part, to ensure that this legacy continues, we are in the process of working on a comprehensive Sports Policy. We are also continuing to explore innovative ways to strengthen our sports programmes. And if this means ensuring more intense support of Bermuda’s sports programmes at the school level to help those young rising stars, then we will commit to doing that.”



Minister Peets advised that in the coming days he will be highlighting several grants that have been made to the various sporting bodies this year. He notes that this is a tangible demonstration of the Government’s ongoing support for sports in Bermuda.