Dominica builds modern integrated community in Grand Bay				




Release – The Government of Dominica is adamant about revolutionizing the country’s housing and urban development sector. Hence, the continuation of housing initiatives across the nation.



The mission to provide a decent home for Dominican families aptly embodies a beacon of hope in developing sustainable and resilient housing communities funded by the Citizenship by Investment (CBI) Programme.



Construction works are in full swing through key partners and stakeholders for several housing projects in Scotts Head, Eggleston, Vieille Case, Paix Bouche and Canefield.



And adding to the list of successful projects by MMC Development Ltd. will be the brand-new integrated community of Grand Bay Ville.



Grand Bay Ville Housing Development is a ground-breaking, contemporary, master-planned concept. More than one hundred standalone houses, twenty-nine (29) empty plots for future construction, and more than ten (10) houses for complete renovation and modernization will fill out the scenic surrounding of the development.





































The vast majority of the housing units will have three bedrooms, two toilets and baths, a kitchen, a dining area, a living room, a laundry area, and a porch.



Beyond the beautifully crafted homes and picturesque view are major facilities and amenities such as a commercial square consisting of 22 shops, a gas station, a magistrate house, a regional fire station, a community centre, and a church. In addition, there will be sporting facilities such as basketball courts, recreational spaces, and pocket parks. Furthermore, the community’s safety is ensured with the presence of the renovated and modernized police station providing 24/7 services to the public.





















Like all other projects done by MMC Development Ltd., the substructures and superstructures will follow the highest resiliency standards — reinforced concrete, shatter-proof windows, and underground utilities to combat adverse weather and natural disasters. In the recent update by the developer, local contractors have already mobilized in the area.



The twenty-five-acre enclave will become a model to emulate for the whole Caribbean region. The fully integrated community of Grand Bay Ville will provide homes to residents displaced by Hurricane Maria. Remarkably unique, a vibrant and holistic life awaits within the Grand Bay Ville community borders.