St. Kitts Parliament dissolved				




St. Kitts and Nevis Prime Minister Timothy Harris announced that he had asked the Governor-General, Samuel Weymouth Tapley Seaton, to dissolve Parliament immediately.



“The time for decision making is at hand. Accordingly, I have asked the Governor-General to dissolve the Parliament of St Kitts-Nevis effective today, May 10, 2022.”



Harris said that he would soon announce the date for the general election.



“I have confidence in the people of St Kitts-Nevis and I strongly believe in their right to choose their representatives in free and fair general elections.”



The embattled Prime Minister added that in the interim, the government continues to function and will do so in an orderly, efficient and effective manner.



Harris’ announcement came after the dismissal of current several ministers, including Harris’ deputy, Shawn Richards and Nevis Premier, Mark Brantley.



He has appointed Eugene Hamilton as the new deputy prime minister and allocated the ministries of the dismissed government legislators to the remaining cabinet ministers, including the Attorney General, Vincent Byron.



“While others neglected their duties, failed to attend cabinet meetings I must commend the members of the cabinet who continue to show great strength for the institution of the cabinet and for giving yeoman service to their country,” Harris noted.



Last month, the disgruntled members of the coalition announced they had filed a motion of no confidence in the governance of Harris.



When a motion of no confidence is filed, the Speaker of the National Assembly is required to schedule a sitting of parliament within 21 days for the motion to be debated.



But last week, Governor-General Seaton denied a request by six legislators to remove Harris and appoint another minister stating that he has no power to do so.



“I wish to advise that under our Constitution no such power resides in the governor-general, and I am therefore unable to accede to your request.”



The PLP controlled two of the nine seats in the coalition government with the two other seats in the National Assembly belonging to the opposition St. Kitts-Nevis Labour Party (SKNLP) which has already called for fresh general elections to end the crisis in the government.