Grenada monitoring Monkeypox outbreak overseas				




GIS – Grenada Ministry of Health is closely monitoring reports of outbreak of Monkeypox disease in several countries including the US, Canada, Australia, the UK, and other parts of Europe.



The Ministry of Health has issued its first public health advisory, notifying the public of the emerging public health threat concerning the detection of cases of the Monkeypox, as reported by the World Health Organisation (WHO).



The Monkeypox virus is a member of the Orthopoxvirus genus in the family Poxviridae which can be transmitted to humans, through close contact with an infected person or animal, or with contaminated material such as bedding.



The scientific conclusion is that the virus may also be transmitted from one person to another by close contact with lesions, body fluids, and respiratory droplets.



The public is advised that the main symptoms of Monkeypox are fever, rash, and swollen lymph nodes.



There are no suspected cases reported or detected in Grenada at this time, but people with a recent travel history from any country where cases have been detected and who are symptomatic, as described above, are encouraged to immediately notify the Ministry of Health and exercise caution when visiting their nearest health care provider.



As monitoring of the global situation continues, Minister for Health and Social Security, Hon. Nickolas Steele has already convened a meeting to address this emerging health threat.



The Ministry of Health will continue to keep abreast of any further developments and will make further credible information available when necessary.



The health minister is also reminding the public that the COVID-19 pandemic is not over and that the onus is on them to remain vigilant and practise proper prevention measures such as proper hand hygiene, cough and sneeze etiquette, and the wearing of masks to protect themselves and loved ones.



He also encouraged persons to get vaccinated against COVID-19 since it is still one of the best means of preventing serious illness, hospitalisation and death from COVID-19. Grenada currently has three vaccine options available.