“It is imperative for all of us is to help to build a resilient Caribbean” – CARICOM Secretary-General				




The Caribbean Export Development Agency is playing a key role in helping regional small businesses emerge from the economic onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic by preparing them for the export market.



Delivering a video message at the launch of Caribbean Export’s 2021 Annual Results Report at the Barbados Hilton Hotel on Thursday, CARICOM Secretary-General Dr. Carla Barnett congratulated Caribbean Export – the agency tasked with supporting private sector development in the Caribbean – for focusing on delivering practical results. “Our region is at a critical crossroads where the imperative for all of us is to help to build a resilient Caribbean in which our people can have sustainable livelihoods at constantly improving standards of living,” she stated.



“These are challenging times financially and therefore our regional institutions and agencies must continue to demonstrate value for money and the delivery of clear and quantifiable results for our people,” added the native Belizean, stating that “we must also have the highest standards of accountability and transparency in our operations and reporting.”



She saluted pioneers working across the green economy, creative industries, and agriculture, which she described as a critical area where investment is needed to build food security. 



During the presentation, attendees heard testimonials from entrepreneurs from Belize, Dominican Republic, Haiti and Jamaica (working in the areas of chocolate, food, spirits, arts, business process outsourcing, and management consulting) describe how their engagement with Caribbean Export helped them to build capacity, increase production and gain access to new markets.



Chairman of Caribbean Export, Senator Dr Lynette Holder, who also serves as the CEO of the Small Business Association of Barbados, lauded the agency for its action-oriented steps to provide direct, concrete support for micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises (MSME) in areas ranging from capacity building for e-commerce to direct grants funded by the European Union.



In 2021, there were three calls for grants totalling more than US$3.5 million, which benefited 157 firms across the region, and four virtual global investment forums helped to raise the profile of the Caribbean as a favourable location for potential investors on the world stage.







Read the full article here.