Wilburne Mathurin nominated in Caribbean Marlin Gospel Awards				




Media Release – With great determination, perseverance, and faith in God, local gospel artist Wilburne Mathurin has unearthed another prestigious milestone to add to his list of achievements. 



On Thursday April 21 2022, the Caribbean Marlin Gospel Awards located in Nassau, Bahamas, nominated our local gospel star for two awards for his original song “Miracle Worker”. Marlin Awards has previously awarded big named artists in the Caribbean gospel arena such as Sherwin Gardener, Jaron Nurse, Chevelle Franklin, and Positive to name a few. Miracle Worker got nominated for Outstanding Black Gospel Recording and Outstanding Instrumental Recording. Wilburne released the worship-type arrangement on January 9 2021 as a medium of hope and consolation for a world battered by the pandemic. 



Though Wilburne faced his own personal tribulations during the pandemic, he has proven to be the local gospel epitome of fortitude and dedication. Like many, his income was severed; however, that did not waiver him chanting the much needed inspirational messages of hope, especially to individuals who longed to hear them the most. Before this maiden nomination came to fruition, the young star was one of the local artistes that voiced the theme song for the Recover Saint Lucia Project in 2021. 



In 2020, Wilburne received his first international interview on NBC 6 for the song, “Get Through This”  that he was featured in with Floridian artiste, J. None. Preceding those accomplishments, in 2019 the local gospel star was one of the three singers who voiced the Independence 40 theme song “We’re All In”. Wilburne’s perseverance, his silky smooth vocals, and faith in God continue to open doors for his artistry.



With over a decade long tenure as a solo artist, Wilburne has a wide array of songs and music videos which has hit the airwaves. He has performed at numerous gospel events, weddings, funerals and at national functions. In 2010, his first single “Wanna Know”, produced by Hugh “Ziggy” James, was aired on local stations and received raved reviews. In 2018, he successfully launched a listening party for his album “Spiritual Awakening” at the then Tapas on the Bay. As part of giving back to society, Wilburne has performed at the NCF Telethon on numerous occasions to help raise funds for the organization to render to the underprivileged in society.



The onus is on us St. Lucians: young or old, man or woman, rich or poor, to support this young prodigy. We live in a society with stigma and vitriol attached to our youth especially when it relates to delinquency and serious crime by a few. Therefore, when we have shining examples of our youth making a positive impact, such as Wilburne, we ought to rally behind them to broadcast our approval. To render support to this exceptional artiste, we implore you to support Wilburne by visiting his website. There you can subscribe, access his music, his other social links, biography and more.