Final Phase of Fish Bay Road in BVI underway				




Press Release – The final phase of works on the Fish Bay Road Rehabilitation Project is underway as the Government of the Virgin Islands moves to mitigate flooding in the area.



Deputy Premier and Minister for Communications and Works, Honourable Kye M. Rymer said that this is the final of eight road projects to be completed by the Recovery and Development Agency on behalf of the Government with financing from the Caribbean Development Bank Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Loan facility.



Honourable Rymer said, “The works included the removal and replacement of the existing culvert with a new and larger one; complete drainage works on both sides of the road; erection of a retaining wall structure and now this final phase, the full road rehabilitation. The Fish Bay Road Rehabilitation Project is expected to mitigate against flooding in the area while encompassing the aesthetics of a proper road network.”



Project Manager with the Virgin Islands Recovery and Development Agency (RDA) Mr. Sergio Dantas said the full road rehabilitation works began on the week of May 16.



“Beginning this week, excavation works for the first 130 meters (426.4 feet) of the project will start at the Sol entrance easterly. The project is expected to rehabilitate a total of 480 meters (1,574.4 feet) of road,” Mr. Dantas said.



Traffic disruptions are expected during this final phase of work. Motorists are advised to approach the area with extreme caution and adhere to all traffic signs. The project is now scheduled to be completed in the third quarter of 2022 and is being executed by the RDA on behalf of the Ministry of Communications and Works.



For current updates about this project, people may visit the Recovery and Development Agency’s (RDA) and Government’s social media pages.



The Government of the Virgin Islands continues to thank the public for its cooperation and patience as extensive road repairs and infrastructural work continue throughout the Territory.